is everybody ready for tomorrow. can you believe it.  it's already the end of the quarter. we already have an exam tomorrow. I'm just so excited.  who else is excited about the exam.  anybody excited the exam going to be over tomorrow. and then you can like take a break from thinking about. Turing machines and otamatone and. that kind of stuff. oh you know I had a fun time with this class with you guys I hope you guys learn some stuff you know. it's really neat stuff and I hope that it kind of opened your mind to.  different types of.  different types of topics in the theory right.  and I don't know I don't know if this makes you a better computer scientist maybe or.  maybe if it opens the way that you think about computers right now you kind of know how to argue about different types of problems right maybe introduce some problems to you that you didn't know about.  So today we're just kind of going to go through. a few of the topics that we talked about this quarter that are going to show up on the final exam.  and so if you guys have any questions feel free to ask or stop me in the middle and ask me questions about it or if there's something that you would like to kind of go over more than something else then let me know and I'll go through the things fast or slow or how were you guys want.  so we're really today we want to summarize the key Concepts keep key Concepts. ideas and themes from CSE 105 approach your final exam studying with confidence we all know it's going to.  it's not. for some of you it's not going to be the most fun to take the exam tomorrow so we all know that but that being said you know, will confidence you guys work this whole quarter you have. you have the ability to succeed right. maybe you won't get every single question right but you know if you come in with confidence you could you could walk out feeling good about how you did and maybe feel good about the grade that you're going to get.  okay so some reminders. the Cape of the TA evaluations are open so please fill those out let let me know how I did let the tears know how they did it's good for planting in the future you know there's certain things that I can improve on that kind of stuff.  the final exam is tomorrow at 11:30 cuz everybody know what room it is. I think it's 110 right yes. okay so it's not in this room okay.  so I hope nobody comes here. okay.  yes you get well I'm only going to give you 2 hours and 59 minutes. because that's the time that's a lot of. but you could take the whole time you know you could take that whole time if you like. I'm hoping that it won't go that much. yeah I imagine that you know the the really the really kind of bright people.  may finish it in like an hour. and then maybe I don't actually I don't know. why is that on there. that shouldn't be on there sorry. there's no discussion tomorrow. okay so I'll look at the seat map in the study guide we're going to have assigned seating again so. make sure you look at it.  alright so let's look at this picture.  I like this picture because it is sort of gives us a sense of what we've done in this class and this is a really nice class I think in the sense that it is sort of a. like each class build upon the class before and if you think about it will actually not really because we did P and NP at the at the end right so doesn't really count.  so first few weeks we did Regular languages. second week second few weeks or the next few weeks we did context-free languages right what kind of a tomatillo is used here pdas. notice that context-free languages. are all. the Sak p and you can sort of reason through that right to recognize or two. to recognize these types of languages you use pdas cfg's or DFAS and stuff like that each one of those write a polynomial time. number of transitions to to Rita strength. this line here is dotted does anybody know why. right we don't know whether or not p is equal to NP so it's either like a superset of pee or it's actually the same set P but we don't know.  okay then all of these languages are decidable all decidable languages are recognizable and what's out here. sure unrecognizable. so maybe something that would be. useful for you guys is to take this picture Frank and try to find try to come up with a set that's in each one of these classes by each one of these areas so what's the set that's regular what's the set that's context-free but not regular what's a set that pee but not Contacts free.  we actually don't know if this area. is empty right now so we can't say for sure.  we can talk about things that we know r&p but we don't know if their pee so maybe that could be like it out of that something that's decidable but not and pee something that's recognizable but not decidable something that's unrecognizable. I guess the definition of that would be that is not recognizable that might be like a nice. review.  okay so let's go through kind of what we did this class was sort of divided into two things that we did in parallel we talked about models of computation and then about the languages that they recognize right so we started out with DFAS and along with DFAS is regular languages but also with regular languages we had nfa's and regular expressions. sell then we did looked at push down automata cfg's. Turing machines that always Halt and polynomial time and these are deterministic right. non-deterministic Turing machines at Halton polynomial time.  Turing machines that always halt AKA deciders these are the decidable languages and Turing machines in general that may or may not help the recognizable languages.